---
title: 'Over The Wire Bandit 2: Write up'
date: 2024-06-10
permalink: /posts/2024/OTW/Bandit2/
tags:
  - ctf
  - OTW
  - Write Up
  - SSH
  - Bash
---

> dealing with hyphens.

Level 2
======
After succesfully connected as bandit 1 and connected to Over The Wire server now, we can focus at: [Bandit1 -> 2](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit2.html). Just like in previous levels, we will learn how to get or view the content inside a file named `-`.

Hyphens in Linux
======

In Linux like systems, when you execute a command a list of **flags** are avalible for us, we have already worked with some flags for our commands. Eg: `ls -l`. in the mayority of Linux commands when we are using the hyphen directly afeter the command the system will understand that we want to use a flag or an [OPTION] just as refered in the manual. This situation will generate problems when the file name starts or it's a `-`.

> After using `ls` you will notice that a `-` is displayed, you should try to make a cat of it.

```bash
bandit1@bandit:~$ ls
-
bandit1@bandit:~$ cat -
[BLINKING CURSOR]
```

Houston we have a problem, when you are using `-` with cat the coursor is displayed and you can type anything but the command would not work, use ***Ctrl+C*** to cancel the execution. This is caused because the cat command is waiting for a flag or an argument, reading from the Standard Input **(stdin)**. 

Files starting with -
======

>The following explanation is for files that the name starts with `-`, it's not the case of the level, if you want to go directly to the solution, you can avoid this section.

When a file starts with `-` but there is only the initial character of the file name, you can use a couple of ways to deal with this kind of files. Eg: Having a file called `-file`, you can use the following command to display content:

```bash
cat -- -file
```

In the most used linux commands, using `--` before the file name, only when the file name starts with a hyphen, to indicate that you are not going to use a flag. Another way to concat is if the file is the unique file in the directory, using `ls` you will get the name of the file and directly concat from the outut.

```bash
cat $(ls)
```

The `$(command)` gets the Standard Output ***(stdout)*** of the command in the parenthesis and you can use it as an arguent.Even using quotes you can indicate the name of the file, in this case would be `cat '-'`, but once again, in the exercise the name of the file is only `-` so any of this solutions will work, but you have learned how to deal with hyphens at file names in linux.

Solutions
======

```bash
bandit1@bandit:~$ cat /home/bandit1/-
[SNIP]

bandit1@bandit:~$ cat ./-
[SNIP]
```

Well, We have already talked about the absolute path to files, for `-` would be ***/home/bandit1/-***. or using the `./` expression that indicates the **actual working directory** and you can add the file name in this case `./-` as a relative path for the `-` file.

> Note: The password for the next user will be displayed, in this case **bandit2**, copy the password and paste it to stablish a new SSH connection (to do so you can use ***Ctrl+Shift+C*** and ***Ctrl+Shift+V***).

See you on the next time, Keep hacking!

------
