---
title: 'Over The Wire Bandit0: Write up'
date: 2024-03-25
permalink: /posts/2024/OTW/Bandit0/
tags:
  - ctf
  - OTW
  - Write Up
  - SSH
---

> "We are hackers, and we are good-looking. We are the 1%"

Over the Wire
=====
[Over The Wire](https://overthewire.org/wargames/) is a hacker website to improve your hacking ***skillz***, They offer different levels to practice in specific areas, using a gamified format as a *CTF's* **(Capture The Flag)** challenges in which we must find a combination of characters or ***flags*** as the passkey for the next level.

Today we are focusing on the first level of OTW: [Bandit](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/). In this level, we will learn how to perform in Linux environments, a pretty basic and fundamental skill in the hacking and pentesting field, so let's jump into it.

Bandit 0
======

Entering the [Bandit 0](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit0.html) level, we will find the following objective: 

***The goal of this level is for you to log into the game using SSH. The host to which you need to connect is bandit.labs.overthewire.org, on port 2220. The username is bandit0 and the password is bandit0.***

We can also find resources and external links to develop this challenge, but don't worry, I got you! Let's jump into it.

SSH
======
SSH It's a protocol to establish a *secure* connection between to hosts or devices across a network. SSH stands for Secure Shell. Thanks to sthe **tunneling** process, which creates a type of tunnel where commands can be executed in a way that normally they couldn't, and aplying encryption (for not transferring raw data), we can establish a reliable SSH connection in the terminal where all the info sent is deencrypted or decoded, ensuring that a third party can't access the information transmitted. To learn more, check out this resources: [SSH](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/access-management/what-is-ssh/), [Tunneling](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/network-layer/what-is-tunneling/). In linux, you should use the *ssh* command, which is commonly pre-installed in the operating system but in case you are not sure if ssh installed on your system, you can use the following command to display the **ssh version**:

```bash
ssh -V
```

If nothing is displayed or the command is not found, you can always install ssh via the ```apt``` command or using your package manager on our Linux system.

Once SSH is properly installed on the system, the basic syntax to use SSH its shown here:

```bash
ssh [host]@[user] #extra options
```

We can use the basic syntax to connect to the server by replacing the field in brackets, but an extra option must be added. The challenge tells us that the ssh protocol on the server-side is running at the port **2220** which is not the ssh default port; the ssh default port is port **22**. If we try to use the following command:

```bash
#ssh [user]@[host] #extra options
ssh bandit0@bandit.labs.overthewire.org
```
This will try to establish the connection on port 22 which it's not available, we need to specify the 2220 port:

```bash
#ssh [user]@[host] -p [port]
ssh bandit0@bandit.labs.overthewire.org -p 2220
```

- The *-p* option means port to connect, here you can specify the port to connect in the range of 1-65535 ports from the total port number to connect.

Now ssh, it's connecting at the proper port, then you need to type *yes* if it's your first time connecting to this server and type your password.

> Note: Nothing will de displayed on screen while typing your password for security reasons, but it's been typed. For real.

After you have connected to the server, the following output will be displayed:

```bash
bandit0@bandit.labs.overthewire.org's password: 

      ,----..            ,----,          .---.
     /   /   \         ,/   .`|         /. ./|
    /   .     :      ,`   .'  :     .--'.  ' ;
   .   /   ;.  \   ;    ;     /    /__./ \ : |
  .   ;   /  ` ; .'___,/    ,' .--'.  '   \' .
  ;   |  ; \ ; | |    :     | /___/ \ |    ' '
  |   :  | ; | ' ;    |.';  ; ;   \  \;      :
  .   |  ' ' ' : `----'  |  |  \   ;  `      |
  '   ;  \; /  |     '   :  ;   .   \    .\  ;
   \   \  ',  /      |   |  '    \   \   ' \ |
    ;   :    /       '   :  |     :   '  |--"
     \   \ .'        ;   |.'       \   \ ;
  www. `---` ver     '---' he       '---" ire.org


Welcome to OverTheWire!

[ SNIP ]

Enjoy your stay!

bandit0@bandit:~$
```

See you on the next time, Keep hacking!

------
