---
title: 'Over The Wire Bandit 6: Write up'
date: 2024-06-14
permalink: /posts/2024/OTW/Bandit6/
tags:
  - ctf
  - OTW
  - Write Up
  - SSH
  - Bash
---

> Finding a file with certain owners (group and user).

Level 6
======
After succesfully connected as bandit 6 and connected to Over The Wire server now, we can focus at: [Bandit6 -> 7](https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/bandit7.html). Just like in previous levels, we will learn how to find a file with certain caracteristics.

Find command
======

The `find` command is a very usefull tool when you want to know the location of a specific file or directory, `find` works with a large type of options or flags. The basic sintax for the `file` command is `file [path to start the search] [OPTION] [argument]` The most basic search or filter to apply into a directory is to search by `name`:

```bash
❯ touch my_file
❯ find . -name 'my_file'
./my_file
```

After the creation of the file `my_file` in the current working directory using `.` expression and the `-name` flag to indicate the name of the file that I want to search in **quotes**.

Solution
======

Adter reading the problem we already know that inside the `inhere` directory there is a file with the following caracteristics:

- human-readable
- 1033 bytes in size
- not executable

In this case there isn't an alternative to filter if the file is human readable using find, we should use the `file` command. Let's apply the fist filter to the search `1033 bytes in size`, using the **manual** of the `find` command using the search option with the `/` key and the `n` key to jump between the results, when we filter by **size** you can realize that we need to use the `c` character to indicate that the size of the file is in **bytes**:

```bash
bandit5@bandit:~$ find inhere/ -size 1033c
inhere/maybehere07/.file2
```

Well, we got the file XD.

>NOTE: Basically this is the only file into the `inhere/` directory with a size of `1033` bytes, you can make a concat of the `inhere/maybehere07/.file2` to have the password and that's all, but I'm gonna explain how to make a propper filter.

As we are searching for a file we can perform a filter to get only files using the `f` option in the flag `-type`:
```bash
find inhere/ -size 1033c -type f
```

In the manual we can see that the `-executable` flag is available, but we are not searching for a executable file instead we are searching for a `not executable`, just like in some programming languages we can use the `!` symbol to change the logic of the expression in this case to search for a non executable file.
```bash
find inhere/ -size 1033c -type f ! -executable
```

After all that you only need to perform a `file` command to know which file is readable, and then filter by the `ASCII` string.

```bash
bandit5@bandit:~$ find inhere/ -size 1033c -type f ! -executable | xargs file
inhere/maybehere07/.file2: ASCII text, with very long lines (1000)
```
Using `xargs` while pipelining, you can pass the output of the immediately preceding command as an argument fot the next command and just using `grep` you can filter by `ASCII` string.

```bash
bandit5@bandit:~$ find inhere/ -size 1033c -type f ! -executable | xargs file | grep 'ASCII'
inhere/maybehere07/.file2: ASCII text, with very long lines (1000)
```

> You will get the same file beacuse that's the only coincidence.

I will filter by the 1st fild using `awk` to get only the file path, and apply a concat, as follows you have the syntax, but do not worry about it, we will dive into `awk` and `cut` soon, you can only apply a simple cat to the path:
```bash
bandit5@bandit:~$find -size 1033c ! -executable | xargs file | grep -i ASCII | awk -F: '{print $1}' | xargs cat
[SNIP]








bandit5@bandit:~$
```

For last you can notice that a tons of spaces are being displayed, without using commands like `sed` or `awk` to filter, or replace, you can apply another `| xargs` without aorgument to remove those anoying with spaces:

```bash
bandit5@bandit:~$find -size 1033c ! -executable | xargs file | grep -i ASCII | awk -F: '{print $1}' | xargs cat | xargs
[SNIP]
bandit5@bandit:~$
```

It's interesting to know other solutions, here you have another posibility to solve the problem, but i have used the `time` command to display the execution time of each command (the commands that we execute to solve a problem may affect the execution time, like a little ***tip*** *this should be always the less amount of time* but it's not mandatory), you can compare and tell the functionality for both commands is the same. In fact both are correct:
```bash
bandit5@bandit:~$ time find -size 1033c ! -executable | xargs file | grep -i ASCII | awk -F: '{print $1}' | xargs cat | xargs
[SNIP]

real	0m0.038s
user	0m0.022s
sys	0m0.022s


bandit5@bandit:~$ time cat $(find -size 1033c ! -executable | xargs file | grep -i ASCII | awk -F: '{print $1}' ) | xargs
[SNIP]

real	0m0.043s
user	0m0.027s
sys	0m0.033s
bandit5@bandit:~$
```

> Note: The password for the next user will be displayed, in this case **bandit2**, copy the password and paste it to stablish a new SSH connection (to do so you can use ***Ctrl+Shift+C*** and ***Ctrl+Shift+V***).

S ee you on the next time, Keep hacking!

------
